it was a professional helpful meeting
that afforded me the opportunity to
review the entire program with the coach
and gather all of the information I
needed to make an important decision
I met with coach Rodriguez this morning
it informed him of my decision to
relieve him of his responsibilities and
to pursue new leadership for our
football program I believe this is the
best decision for the future of Michigan
football I will simply say that Coach
Rodriguez has faced many challenges and
difficulties over his three years here
and I want to state for the record that
I appreciate the hard work and effort
that he and his staff have put forth
Rich Rodriguez is a good man none of us
are pleased with the results that we
have achieved over the last three
seasons but I don't believe this was a
result of lack of effort well certainly
I've given some thought to this and
tried to do some planning around it but
knowing that this decision is very fresh
I have a lot of work to do
so that's where we start immediately
following this session today
no I don't intends to create any
committees certainly there are people
out there that are close to the program
whose judgment is experienced I value
and theirs in all of them have
constantly since I got this job in March
reached out it made their advice
available and so I'm sure there's no
lack of advice in this job but certainly
it's my job to pick out those folks
who'd give me the best advice and help
me make the best decision yeah I I
started in this position in March and
one of the first things I said the first
day was that one of my objectives was to
try to bring the Michigan community
together again we've been divided to a
large extent we continue to be divided
based on all the various inputs and
opinions that I get and and clearly if
we want to be successful if we want to
be successful as a football program it's
an athletic department and we want our
university to really represent what
we're all about
we need to rally around our approach
don't find fault don't make hasty
judgments before they arrive on campus
what we need to do is rally around our
coach support them and do everything we
can do to help them be successful hope
that's what our fans our lungs and all
of the folks are connected to Michigan
are prepared they've died with Fox
Sports Detroit how important to us but
getting a so-called Michigan man it's
there there are advantages and there
disadvantages to a variety of things on
that job description whether it's a
Michigan man quote-unquote or not what
clearly is important
is that whatever it is has a clear
understanding of what Michigan is all
about and this is a unique place
it creates unique challenges it also
provides unique opportunities what I
know who believe is that whoever comes
into this job cast understand that
clearly and be well suited I don't want
to say what rich did or didn't
understand I would just simply say it as
I look forward for the successor to Rich
Rodriguez I think it's going to be very
important the dead individual have a
clear understanding of what the
University of Michigan is all about the
high expectations that exist here
passion that we have for football and
the results that are expected
can you touch on Wyatt duck that you
decided very clearly to wait until after
January 1st after bogeying to make this
decision when you consider how well
first of all from from my perspective if
you terminate a coach in December it's
not exactly that's not exactly gonna
help recruiting and there's this idea
that you terminate a coach between the
last game of the season in a bowl game
that somehow that's going to enhance
your recruiting efforts I don't
necessarily buy into that but
fundamentally my judgment was and I said
this repeatedly was that the season ends
with the last game in every game is
important and and I do not believe it is
fair to these student-athletes to put
them in a position where they're going
to play on a big stage and they're going
to be out there particularly on the New
Year's Day Bowl a national television
and not have them be coached by their
coach and there are other there clearly
other programs who feel differently and
they send their team out there with
interim coach
or in difficult circumstances and I
don't think you put those kids in a
chance in a position where they have the
best chance to win and I said that over
and over again and I believed that and
and truthfully as we got into the back
half of the season
I was looking like everybody else I was
looking for science of improvement in
progress and having an extra 15 days of
practice and an ability to prepare for
one SCC team to me was just another test
it wasn't the only test it wasn't the
only criteria but it was another test
and it was one that I was studying very
carefully to see what kind of progress
we were making as a programmer so that
was my decision and it was my decision
all the way along and I still stand by
that decision those players particularly
those players who had never had a chance
to be in a ball game deserve the
opportunity to go in with the best
chance to win and my judgment was that
they should have the coaches who'd been
coaching them all season